Hello.
Welcome to session 415,
Mastering the Quartz Composer Editor.
As I was just introduced,
my name's Nathan Wertman.
We've got a bunch of
things to cover today,
so let's just go ahead and jump right in.
There seems to have
been a bit of a snafu.
This session was marked as a hands-on.
The assets weren't available,
so I'm just going to go
through and demo everything.
If you guys could just follow along,
that would be great.
The first demo is going to be new
Quartz Composer Editor features.
We've added a whole bunch of things
to make content creation easier.
Then one of my coworkers is
going to come on stage and
show new and improved patches.
And a third person is going to
come on stage for the last section
and talk about the improvements
to the programmable patches.
So what do you guys care about?
The new features that we've
added for composition creators
include a redesigned editor.
We've gone through and made
it so easy to create content,
it's not even funny.
An optimized image pipeline.
Most of what you deal with in
Quartz Composer are images,
so we've made small
images more efficient,
faster images.
We've added a new feature called
"Composers" that allows you to
add images to Quartz Composer.
So you can add images to Quartz
Composer and it will handle it.
We've added support for custom patches.
So if any of you are developers
and you realize that there's just
a patch that you don't have that
you really wish that you did,
you can write it.
Or you can chime in on the Quartz
Composer mailing list and I'm sure
somebody would write it for you.
We've added a composition repository.
Since Tiger,
a lot of Mac OS X clients have started
accepting Quartz Composer as the
default way to define your image.
So we've added a new feature
called "Composers". It's a new
feature that allows you to define
motion graphics in the system.
So we decided to make a
centralized location where
everybody can go to get it.
We also decided to make this public
for third party applications.
So that way you as content
creators can create content and
give it to all these applications.
You no longer need to carry both torches.
So how do you create repository content?
It's a simple three step process.
You only need to do two of them.
The first step is create compositions
which conform to protocols.
And if any of you were at
Alessandra's session this morning,
session 606, you've already seen this.
A protocol is just an agreed
upon set of inputs and outputs.
Once you've created the composition,
just put the composition
into Library Compositions.
And then finally, the applications then
take care of the rest.
They ask the composition repository for
compositions that conform to a protocol,
and then they receive a list back.
And then they do what
they will with them.
So let's just go ahead and
jump right into a demo of that,
if I could have the demo machine.
So the first thing I'm going
to do is I'm going to launch
the Quartz Composer Editor.
And for those of you who
are unfamiliar with it,
it is in Developer, Applications,
Quartz Composer.
On first launch, you see a couple of
different windows pop up,
including our new template assistant.
This is where we list all of the
available protocols that are currently
in the composition repository.
We have music visualizers
and image filters.
And down here,
you see an explanation of what the
inputs and output ports are representing.
So for this demo,
I'm going to go ahead and create
an old Western-themed filter
that can be used in image,
in iChat or Photo Booth.
And I'm going to do something
a little bit fun with it,
too.
So I'm going to go ahead
and choose Image Filter.
And you'll see when you first
look at it that we have--
A bunch of patches on the workspace.
You'll also notice that we,
if you're familiar with Quartz Composer,
you'll notice that we've removed
the patch browser from the
left-hand side of the workspace.
We've created a patch creator window,
which is just a floating window
that you use to go ahead and
add patches to the workspace.
It can also be closed
whenever you don't need it.
The main problem in Tiger was that you
could never close the patch browser.
So I'm going to close that for now.
And what exactly does the image
filter protocol provide us?
Well, the darker patches are
required inputs and outputs.
So here we have a required input image,
the image to process,
and we have a required output image,
the processed image.
We also have a few optional inputs.
We have an X and Y optional input here,
which is used to center the image,
center the effect
appropriately on the image.
In the case of the
boilerplate we have here,
it focuses the zoom blur.
And we also have a preview mode,
which you can take a lighter
weight rendering path down.
But I don't need that for this demo,
so I'm just going to
go ahead and remove it.
So the first thing that we need
to do if we're doing anything
old western is add a sepia tone.
So I'm going to go ahead and
remove this process image.
And if you were paying attention
during the previous session,
you'll notice that we've
added Undo Support,
which is completely supported
within the editor now.
No longer do you need to
remember your last 10 steps.
So we're doing a Western theme.
So when you think Western theme,
you think sepia.
So I'm going to go ahead
and add a sepia tone.
The patch creator here has a whole
bunch of hotkeys associated with it.
Well, not a whole bunch of hotkeys,
a whole bunch of quick functionality.
I can close it with the escape key.
I can bring it forward with
Enter or Command Enter.
When I bring it forward,
the search field's already
selected so I can type what I want.
And there are a few preferences
that you can go ahead and check to
customize it more to your work style.
So I'm going to go ahead and
connect our incoming image,
the protocol provided incoming image,
to the sepia tone.
And I'm going to connect the
processed image of the sepia
tone to the outgoing image.
And look at that.
We have sepia tone flowers.
It's not terribly exciting.
I'm going to go ahead and make a
little bit more room for myself.
If you look at any old
Western photography,
you'll notice it's got
a bit of a grain to it.
So what's a good way to do
that in Quartz Composer?
It's to add a dot screen.
So I'm going to go ahead and add
the dot screen to the workspace
and connect it up appropriately.
Now this is, it obviously is applying a
bit of a grain to the image,
but it looks a bit too intense.
So we need to change some of
the settings on this dot screen.
And to do that,
I'm going to bring forward
the Patch Inspector.
And we can change the settings here.
But before we change
any of those settings,
I want to talk a little bit
more about core image filters.
So core image filters have,
core image filters can have
a set of inputs that are
expressed in pixel dimensions,
such as width.
If we are adding this composition
to the composition repository,
we have no idea how big
the incoming image is.
So if we were to just leave this
width setting to 5.8 like we have it,
then images that are only 20 pixels
wide are going to look much different
than images that are 200 pixels wide.
So in Tiger,
the way you worked around this was
by doing a little bit of math and
calculating the width you cared about
as a percentage of the image's width.
Well, for Leopard,
we've added the ability to just
normalize these pixel-based coordinates.
So if you check it, that means then,
and you can read here in the description,
that pixel dimensions come
in as a range of 0 to 1,
which means that all images are
going to end up looking the same.
So to change the parameters,
I'm going to bring forward
our new Patch Parameter tab,
which allows you to see the
parameters for the selected patch,
or all the selected patches,
as well as the macro patch.
This is really useful for
things like copying colors
from one color well to another,
as well as just seeing an overall
view of all of the settings at once.
For this demo,
I happen to know exactly what I want.
Go figure.
So I'm going to add a bit of a grain,
and I'm going to adjust this
to-- I'm going to make it
a little bit more intense.
Okay, so now we've got grainy flowers.
And that would be fine for
an Old West style theme.
But like I said,
I want to do something a little bit fun.
Since this is going in
Photo Booth or iChat,
What I need to do is have an image
that represents what I'm actually
going to be applying the effect on.
Let's grab an image.
So I'm just going to drag a
picture of our boss up here,
Bertrand.
You're welcome, Peter.
And now we see that we have Bertrand.
So now we can start kind of getting
an idea of how this is actually
going to feel within Photo Booth.
You know, I always thought that
Bertrand needed a mustache.
I don't know about you guys,
so I'm going to go ahead
and add a mustache to him.
Close the patch parameter view.
And if you notice,
those of you who are familiar
with Quartz Composer,
I'm sure a little while
ago you were like,
how is this even drawing anything?
There's no renderers on the screen.
Well,
the Quartz Composer Editor understands
the image filter protocol and
understands that what needs to
be displayed is this outgoing image.
So it automatically does that for you.
If we were to add a
billboard to this level,
which is just a simple way of
rendering in Quartz Composer,
you'll see that it stops
drawing altogether.
That's because image filters
can't have any renderers,
or also known in Quartz
Composer as consumers,
at their top level.
That's because when
the patch is being run,
we don't know what
application is running it,
and we can't guarantee that
the correct-- that there will
even be a display attached to
the machine while it's running.
So in order to draw a mustache
over a picture of Bertrand,
we're going to need to have a patch that
will allow us to do some compositing,
allow us to do the drawing
not at the top level,
and then output an image.
In Quartz Composer,
that's the render an image patch.
Now, render an image can use quite a
bit of VRAM if it's misconfigured.
So for Leopard,
we've added the ability to define
the pixels wide and pixels high.
And we want to make sure to
always set those every time
you use a render an image.
So what I want to do is I want to
have this outcoming image have the
same dimensions as our source image.
So I'm going to grab an
image dimensions patch.
Which is basically just a tool
that-- let me make a little bit more
room here-- which is basically just
a tool that when given an image,
gives you information about the image,
both the width and height in Quartz
Composer coordinate space up here
and the pixels high and pixels wide.
Obviously, we need to use pixels
high and pixels wide here.
And I'm going to go ahead and connect the
image out resulting up to the dot screen.
And you'll see that everything
just goes to garbage.
It's nice and western-y garbage,
but it's still garbage.
That's because we're not drawing
anything in this render and image patch.
Since this render and
image patch is a macro,
you can tell by the square corners,
double-clicking on it will move in.
We've added a lot more powerful
zooming to Quartz Composer in Leopard,
as well as removing the
2,000 by 2,000 window bounds.
So now you can actually use all
30 inches of your real estate.
So we're getting garbage here
because we're not drawing anything.
So the first thing we should do--
and since we're not at the top level,
we can have consumers-- is clear it.
And since we want to put
a mustache on Bertrand,
we're going to need to have
Bertrand being drawn at this level.
So we're going to go ahead
and create a billboard.
And I'm going to zoom in a little bit.
So those of you who aren't familiar
with Quartz Composer are going
to immediately see a problem.
How can we connect this incoming
image of Bertrand to an image
inside the render an image?
Those of you who are familiar with
Quartz Composer already know the answer.
You need to publish the input.
And you can do that by
right-clicking on the billboard,
Publish Inputs, Image.
So now when we move up to the top level,
going up to the root macro patch
in our new hierarchy browser here,
you'll see that we now have an image
input that we can connect it to.
So I'm going to connect that up now.
And you'll see we have Bertrand.
Moving back into the render in image,
you see Bertrand is small.
He's not being drawn the full width
and size of our render in image.
In Quartz Composer coordinate space,
the left edge is negative 1
and right edge is positive 1.
So we have a width of two
Quartz Composer coordinates.
And you can see by double-clicking on
the billboard here that the width is 1.
We could just set that to 2,
but we've added a new feature
for Leopard in the settings
under the Patch Inspector.
Go to Settings.
You'll see that we have dimensions.
And we have a lot of dimensions
because we found that people kept
doing this over and over by hand.
So I'm going to go ahead
and set it to real size,
which just draws Bertrand at
full size for the incoming image.
So now we're back where we started.
We've got Bertrand applied
with an old Western theme,
but we now have the ability
to do our own drawings.
So let's go ahead and
put that mustache on him.
I'm going to grab a
mustache out of the assets.
And we need another
billboard to put that on,
something that we can
put over Bertrand's face.
So I'm going to drag that
one out and connect it up.
You guys can't see this,
but rather than having to do
drag connections for Leopard,
we've added the ability to
just do a click to connect.
So you click on the source port,
you click on the destination port.
If you hold down Option,
it won't break the connection.
You can click on multiple
destination ports and you can
connect multiple things in one pass.
So now we've got a black box
drawing over Bertrand's face.
And if he was going for
a really boxy mustache,
that might make sense.
But you can see here in the tool
tip that this image actually has
some alpha associated with it.
Actually, you can't see that in the
tool tip because-- anyway.
Sorry.
That's because this image
has alpha associated with it.
But we haven't told the
billboard to respect this alpha
and do the correct blending.
In Quartz Composer,
you do that with the blending input.
And we choose blending over.
Now you can see we have a mustache.
But it's not properly centered.
And while we could drop this composition
just like it is in Photo Booth,
everybody would have to cream
their neck and try to position
their head just right to get the
mustache in the appropriate place.
As I said earlier,
we have x and y values coming in
from the host application that
typically are going to correspond to
where you want the effect centered.
I'm going to use those
to center the mustache.
So if I jump into the rendering image,
it's the same issue as getting Bertrand's
image inside the rendering image.
We need to publish the input ports.
So I'm going to publish
X and I'm going to publish Y.
And I accidentally did
that in the wrong order.
So you see I published Y first,
followed by X.
Well, with these two patches
being oriented X and Y,
this is just a recipe for disaster.
In Tiger,
I would have to go unpublish those
ports and then republish them again.
New for Leopard,
we've added the ability to
reorder published ports.
You can also rename the ports
in there if you would like.
So if I wanted to
change it to Mustache X,
you can do that as well.
And then I'm going to connect things up.
And you should see that we have
the mustache moving on his face.
But something's not right.
It's not tracking the mouse properly.
And that's because protocols,
when their numerical values --
when the host application gives a
numerical value to a composition,
it's normalized in a
range from zero to one.
This allows an app to know that zero is,
in this case, for X,
zero is the left corner,
Y is zero is the bottom.
So 00 is the lower left corner,
11 is the upper right corner.
And they know that if
they want it centered,
they can just do .5, .5.
They don't need to know how
the composition works at all.
So in order to offset this appropriately,
we need to do some math to
translate between these two scales.
In Tiger, what we would have had to
do is break the connections,
insert the math, then connect everything
back up to the X position.
For Leopard, we've added the ability to
just insert an input splitter,
which will maintain the published state
of the port as well as the connections.
So now we have room in here to do the
math without breaking all of these
other connections and having to remember
how to connect everything back up.
So I'm going to go ahead
and publish it for the Y.
Let me bring forward a new patch
called Mathematic Expression.
The Math Patch was really powerful,
and the Mathematic Expression doesn't
do anything that the Math Patch doesn't,
but it makes it a lot easier.
You can just type an arbitrary equation
in here and it'll automatically
propagate the inputs and outputs,
or the input ports appropriately.
So I'm going to go ahead
and type 2 times a minus 1.
And you'll notice that it removed
the b input on this particular
Mathematic Expression patch.
You'll also notice the title
was automatically updated.
There are a certain set of patches where
the settings really represent the titles.
So we have set up automatic titles
for those particular patches.
Things like splitters and
the Mathematic Expression.
So now we have the mustache
centered on the mouse.
And that's exactly what we want.
So step one is done.
Step one is creating the composition
that conforms to a protocol.
So what I'm going to do now is save
it to the appropriate location.
I'm going to save it to--
My home directory, library, compositions.
I'm going to overwrite the
one that was previously there.
Then when I launch Photo Booth
and go to the effects,
After you get through all of these
great background removal effects,
you'll see that we have
the mustache effect.
And I can go ahead and orient things
appropriately and take my picture.
So that's really great that
it just works in Photo Booth,
but if you noticed,
one of our other clients is Automator.
I've got a picture of
Bertrand now with a mustache,
but what if I want all of the
executives to have a mustache?
Bertrand is the, or Bertrand,
the Automator is the
perfect tool for that.
So I'm opening the Automator workflow,
and I'm going to drag in
my directory of pictures.
( Transcript missing )
Basically, all this is doing is,
it's basically just getting finder items,
copying the directory someplace,
and then opening them up in preview.
So here we have all of our
executives with a bit of an old
Western theme applied to them.
Tony's my favorite.
Yeah.
So if I could go back to slides, please.
So here's a list.
I mean,
we've got a whole bunch of new features,
but here's a few of them that
I couldn't quite work into the demo.
Occasionally,
you know the exact aspect ratio
or pixel dimensions you're
dealing with for your application,
and you don't want to have
to worry about resizing the
viewer appropriately by hand.
For Leopard,
we've added a pop-up menu in the viewer,
which allows you to quickly choose
which either aspect ratio or
pixel dimensions you care about,
as well as customizing them in the
preferences for the application.
For those of you familiar
with Quartz Composer,
you'll know what clips are.
Clips,
for those of you who aren't familiar,
in Tiger were sort of persistent
copies of small functional
units of the composition.
They weren't really first-class citizens.
In Leopard, we've moved them to be
first-class citizens.
They now show up in the patch
creator when you search for a patch.
You can create them on the fly just by
this Create Clip button in the toolbar.
And you can manage them
within the Preferences window.
With all these changes,
there's going to be some
compatibility issues,
and we tried to make it as
easy on you guys as possible.
So what we have for compatibility
with 10.4 is we've added the
ability to have badges displayed on
the patches for whichever patches
have either warnings or errors.
This makes it easy to know right away
if something isn't behaving correctly.
I don't have a slide for it,
but we also have the ability on
Leopard to run the composition
using the Tiger runtime,
which allows you to see what it
would look like in Tiger right
next to the Leopard version.
That's under the File menu.
And Quartz Composer,
in some environments, runs in safe mode.
Safe mode basically restricts
some patches from running
for security reasons,
such as WebKit, Dashboard, et cetera.
We've added another badge
as well to indicate whether
or not a patch is running.
It will be available in safe mode.
And to talk about all of the new patches,
here's Troy.
Thank you, Nate,
for showing us a look at the
new Quartz Composer Editor.
And now, my name is Troy Koelling,
and I'm going to show you a little bit
deeper look at the Quartz Composer world.
We're going to talk about some
of the new patches that you might
be interested in when mastering
the Quartz Composer Editor.
So let's go ahead and start with a demo.
Now, as a developer,
say I'm a game developer,
I spend a long time perfecting my game,
whether it's in Quartz
2D or if it's in OpenGL.
And now the last thing I need to
do is create a high score screen
to display the user's high scores.
Now, I don't really want to take a
whole lot of time to develop it,
but I do want something that looks great.
So Quartz Composer is my first choice.
Here's kind of what I came up
with to display these high scores.
Because my game is a pinball game,
I came up with the theme of a kind of
dive bar to display the high scores,
keeping the user in the
environment they're embedded in
while they're playing the game.
You can see the most prominent
aspect of this high score screen is,
of course, the scores on the menu.
But I also have an image in the
background and a movie playing to
show to you how Quartz Composer
can be interactive as well.
This video could be your game trailer or
it could be a replay of the current game.
I think if Ducati was
actually advertising,
they probably wouldn't choose
to advertise in this bar.
But you get the idea.
Now, the most important part
of this composition is,
of course, the scores.
So I'm going to dive in and show
you a really popular design pattern,
how to get data from your
application into a composition.
The goal state we're
going to look for is this,
just a list of names.
Of course,
you could have the scores as well.
This list comes from your
application as a structure.
It could be on a published port
or it could be as a file on disk
with the new XML Downloader patch.
I'm going to close this down
and start directly from scratch.
Now, because I don't have an
actual game to show you,
I'm going to use some fake data
in order to get the structure
that I want into the composition.
I'm also going to go ahead and
right away clear the rendering view.
Now, whenever you have a list,
the first thing you
should think is iterator,
because an iterator simply takes its
contents and renders them to screen.
It has a number of iterations,
so every iteration, it renders whatever
it contains to screen.
The number of times we want to compute
the contents of the iterator is defined
by the number of items in our data set.
So we can get a structure count out
and set the number of iterations.
Now I'd like to send the
structure inside the iterator,
but there's no port for that.
So just like Nathan did,
I'm going to go inside and
publish a port for that.
Now you can go back to the top
level and get that structure inside.
Now you can see what the
structure looks like.
It's got a list of key value pairs.
Now, fundamentally, each one of those key
value pairs is a string.
So naively, we could just try to display
that as you would any string.
And of course, you use the image with
string patch for that.
I'm going to set the blending just
as if you saw Alessandra's example.
You want to make sure that the
alpha component of the string
is respected on the billboard.
I'm also going to set the
width so that it's always
rendered as sharp as possible.
Now if we take our structure
and put it on the string,
you'll see that Quartz Composer
knows there's a structure in there,
it just doesn't know how
to display the contents.
What we need to do is split out
each of those items in the structure
and display them individually,
one per iteration as we go.
So it makes more space for us.
And the two items that we can
use to split out that structure
is the structure index member
and the structure key member.
Let's go ahead and get those out.
Now as we flow the
structure through there,
we can split off each item
based on index and key.
I'm going to set the key to name.
And you can see that I can set
the index here and get different
items out of the structure.
Now really what I want to do
is set that index depending
on which iteration we're on.
Well,
the iterator patch has a convenience
patch called the iterator variables,
which allows you to know which
iteration you're currently rendering.
Thus I can set the current index
on the structure index member
and display all the names.
But you'll notice they're all
displayed on top of each other.
This is a common mistake just because
we don't have a differentiation
in the position of the billboards.
You'll also notice that there's a current
position on the iterator variables,
which I can connect from here to the
Y position in order to spread them out.
That's great and all,
but they look a little off-centered.
The current position is a number
between 0 and 1 because it's simply
taking the current index and divide
it by the number of iterations.
What I want to do is get between negative
0.5 and 0.5 on the rendering destination.
So let's go ahead and just subtract 0.5.
Now you can see that the names are
properly displayed on the composition
and we can go ahead and modify
those as we want in order to put
them in our pinball demonstration.
So let's go ahead and see how that
fits in with the broader demonstration.
So we have names and scores on the menu.
Let's take a look at
how this all fits in.
First thing we do--
is we're clearing the workspace.
We're just doing that so that we ensure
that wherever the image doesn't cover,
we're not going to get garbage in the
application that we're running us in.
After that, I import an image of a bar.
This is a bar down by
Apple Campus that I like to go to.
And we apply a bloom effect so that it
kind of gives a kind of dreamlike state.
And that's just set on this sprite here.
Next thing we do is we
draw the television.
The movie playing on it is just
loaded from a file on disk,
and I've made it a macro so that I could
display both the image of the movie
and sort of a frame around the image.
I'd like to stress the importance
of using kind of real assets
because it really gives you a good
composition rather than trying
to construct everything with
core image filters from scratch.
Lastly, we have the menu.
This is a 3D transformation in
order to give us control over
where it is positioned in space.
You'll notice here the fake
data that I had earlier.
And this, of course,
would be a published port to your
application or an XML downloader,
as I mentioned earlier.
Inside the menu,
we have a lighting patch.
It gives it kind of the red-blue glow on
the pages and also gives it some shading.
Inside that,
we have the menu left and right,
which displays the image on some
sprites that are rotated in space so
that they give a kind of folded effect.
I'm using a render an image here
to composite the high score title
with the list and also the texture
of the paper so that it has an
easy way to get that all together.
You can see here the image with
string is displaying the high
of high scores and this is the
actual paper that it's drawing on.
Here, of course,
is the Structure Iterator
demo that I just completed.
You'll see this in many compositions
because it's a very useful way to
get data into your application.
Now,
this composition that I'm showing you
is completely compatible with Tiger.
Everything you're seeing can be done
with patches that will work on Tiger.
But let's see what we can do with
new patches in Leopard in order
to spruce it up a little bit.
First thing,
this JavaScript I've created is sorted
in order to make my point clear.
But if I change this data,
You'll get unsorted values and
this may be closer to what is
happening in your application.
Because say you save the data
in the high scores data file
chronologically or just randomly,
you may want to be
able to sort that data.
So, new in Leopard,
we have a structure sort.
The interesting thing
about the structure sort,
of course, is the sorting descriptor,
which allows you to define
what item in the structure
you're going to be sorting on.
Because structures may have
many types of numerical data,
or you may want to sort on the
alphanumeric value of a string,
you have the ability to set the
sorting descriptor based on a
dotted path into the structure.
Now let's talk about something that
most people just try to ignore,
and that is how this menu
has kind of got jaggy edges.
If you're an OpenGL programmer,
you know the reason behind this is
because OpenGL works on discrete pixels.
But for you as developers and your users,
don't care about those discrete pixels.
They just want smooth edges.
Well, new in Leopard,
we've added the ability to make
sprites anti-aliased on the edges.
Let's go ahead and dive down to
where the sprites are rendered.
You'll see here,
In the settings panel of the inspector,
we have the ability to give
it some anti-aliased edges.
This only works on the sprite patch
because we wanted to make sure
that you are using this properly.
It can use some extra resources.
It's also important to note
that the sprites that have the
anti-aliasing setting on need to have
a blending of over or add because
the sprites are actually compositing
with the layers below them.
Next thing I'd like to do,
this Ducati video looks pretty nice,
but what if I wanted to
apply an effect on it?
I may or may not have time to actually
think about a core image kernel to
write and apply an effect to the movie,
but wouldn't it be great if I could
farm that work off to somebody else?
If I could, say,
create a composition which applied
that effect and then just load that
in on the fly in my composition.
Well, new in Leopard,
we have the new Composition Loader.
This is a very powerful concept because
it allows you to modularize your
compositions and load them on the fly.
But so as an extension to that,
we also have the Composition Repository,
which provides a set of filters which
you can use in your application.
It includes-- we haven't really talked
about some of the other things that
Composition Repository provides for you,
but image filters are
one of the most useful.
We also have animations for those of you
who have-- want to display backgrounds,
or we have music visualizers,
as Alessandro talked about this morning.
So in order to configure this composition
loader to work as an image filter,
we can go to the settings and
auto-configure from a protocol.
In this case,
we're going to use Image Filter as
a protocol we're going to use.
Now,
you could use the input ports here and
create those ports on your own manually.
But the auto-configure from protocol
is a convenience feature to allow you
to get the required input ports to the
composition loader without any work.
Now when we route the image
through here and set the location,
let's talk about the location first.
Location is, of course,
going to be a URL on disk.
You can load any kind of composition
and speak to the inputs of that
composition using these inputs here
as long as they're named the same.
But as a special case for
the composition repository,
you can use the identifier of a
composition with a forward slash
at the beginning in order to load a
composition directly from the repository.
So I'm going to use a film stock.
And there instantly you can see the
video playing is black and white.
It's got some changed aspect ratio
and a little bit of grain to give it
kind of the right effect that we want.
But let's say we wanted to mimic
a bar closer to San Francisco.
I could change this.
Right now we're on the fly
to something you might be
familiar with in Photo Booth,
and that's the Pop Art effect.
All right, let's see what else we can do
to this composition to make
it just a little bit better.
Actually,
let's take a look at some compositions,
some patches that we,
I didn't have a chance to
fit into this demonstration,
but we're really excited
about them and we think that
you will enjoy them as well.
I'm going to save this as
a new file on the desktop.
Now I can demonstrate the
Compare Compositions feature,
which is a window allowing you to see
the differences between two compositions.
If I load up the original
composition on the right side here,
You can see the differences
between these two compositions
are demonstrated in red here.
And this allows me to
remember what I had forgotten,
and that is I actually want to add the
ability to move the menu out of the way.
So let's go ahead and open this back up.
Now,
the menu is a great item here in the way,
but...
I'd really like to be able
to move it out of the way,
just kind of on the
fly in my application.
Maybe the user wants to see
what's going on in the background.
Well, since this menu is situated
in a 3D environment,
I can move that simply by
showing the patch parameters and
scaling around this number here.
But I really know what values I want.
I just want to go between two presets.
So the best way to do that is to use
a multiplexer to set those presets.
I have two presets,
so I can go ahead and...
Change the number of inputs to
two and make them number inputs.
And then what I can do
is set those presets
here on the input ports.
( Transcript missing )
go between two positions of the
menu just by sliding this slider.
Of course,
I could also set this zero and one here.
But I don't really want
to remember zero and one,
and the slider doesn't give me any clue
about what position the menu is in.
So, new in Leopard,
I have the ability to add labels to
that menu position published input.
I can simply insert an input splitter,
which automatically
creates an index splitter,
and change the type of that
to use labeled indices.
If I label this menu up and menu down, I
You'll see that the input parameters
allow me to switch directly
between the up and down position.
You'll also, new in Leopard,
you'll also find that this pop-down menu
and any published ports are provided to
you as a view that you can put in your
application called the QC parameter view,
QC patch parameter view.
This allows you to give your composition
a nice interface without having to
actually query the ports and see
what type they are and all that jazz.
Now what if I wanted to change the
behavior of the menu so that it
slides in a more graceful fashion?
It would be great if
I could just smooth it out.
So with NU in Leopard,
we have a smooth patch.
Which goes between one value and
another value in a smooth way,
with a settable speed
here on the input ports.
Now when I change this,
the menu glides into place.
So now I can really go and show
you some of those new patches that
didn't fit in that presentation.
One idea you have in Quartz Composer
is the idea that you need to
save a state in your composition.
So I have this Pin the Tail on
the Donkey composition,
which allows me to click and
hold the position of the tail.
If you saw Alessandro's
session this morning,
you'll know that's done
by the sample on hold.
What the sample on hold
does is has three inputs.
One is what to remember,
the second one is when to remember it,
and the third one is when to forget.
In this case, we want to remember the
X position of the mouse and the
Y position on the second one.
We also want to remember it when the
left mouse button is pushed in both
of those sample and hold patches.
And when to forget, well,
we don't really need to
forget any time soon.
So the output value is just set on
the X and Y position of the sprite.
The values compatible with the
sample and whole patch are anything
that Quartz Composer handles.
That could be images,
it could be numbers,
it could be structures,
or it could be booleans or strings.
The sample and hold idea can be extended
to another new patch called the queue,
which not only remembers one item,
it can remember a whole
series of values to store.
The queue patch is just
like the sample on hold.
It has what to remember is the value,
when to remember it is the filling value,
and the reset signal is
still when to forget.
We also have an additional parameter,
and it's the queue size.
In this case, it's four,
because I want to remember
the last four clicks,
four tries for that pin
the tail on the donkey.
The output of this is a queue,
and that's, of course, just a structure,
a list.
So what do we do when
we have a structure?
We use the iterator.
And it's just like you would imagine.
You have the X positions as a structure.
You split the items of that structure
using the structure index member
and place them on the billboard
where this tail is being drawn.
You'll also notice that
I'm using a pulse patch.
Because the cue can remember
more than one value,
you want to make sure that
it only remembers the instant
the mouse button is pushed.
So because the mouse button can
have a kind of square input where it
instantly changes from zero to one,
but then stays there for a long time,
the pulse patch can detect when that
value goes from false to true and
send out a single pulse frame to that
filling parameter of the cue patch.
The next composition I have
displays something that will be
familiar to you if you've used more
traditional rendering packages,
and that is the timelines.
If you want to be able to define
arbitrary motion in a composition,
then it's useful to be able
to use timelines to do that.
So let's see how that works.
Here is the definition
of those timelines.
You have keyframes,
you have control points,
you can move these around and come
up with all sorts of crazy motion.
You can add as many timelines
as you want and name them.
and you have all sorts
of power with that.
Now, if you remember Tiger,
any time you click off
the Timelines patch,
that goes away.
But new in Leopard,
we have the ability to go
to show patch settings,
and that'll give you a solid
window that doesn't go away when
you choose different patches.
Next,
I'd like to show you this noise patch.
In Quartz Composer,
it's always been possible to
get high-quality random values.
But because Quartz Composer
is a 3D environment,
it's important to get those random
values in multiple dimensions.
Since the random patch is essentially
just a one-dimensional stream of values,
now you can insert a
position in space and get 1D,
2D or 3D noise.
As you can see,
this rotating cube is simply the
3D noise displayed on screen.
Next I have two patches that work in
tandem that we think are really neat.
These are two separate compositions,
but they're synchronized
using the network broadcaster
and network receiver patches.
Of course,
this is just running on one machine,
but you can imagine this
happening in a lab or something.
It communicates over UDP on
the local area network.
We want to stress the fact that
this is not for mission-critical
synchronization across the world.
It's simply a string
transmitted over the network.
The string can't be more
than about 200 characters.
As you can see,
the data generators get the data here
and output it on the broadcaster sprite.
It also packs it into a sort of datagram
and transmits it over the network
using this network broadcaster patch.
On the other side, we receive the data,
which you can see here with the
colon-separated numerical values.
It's a string.
We separate it out and
then put it on the sprite.
If we close the Broadcaster Renderer,
you'll notice that the glow
ball stops on the receiver end.
So that's how you know that the
data is in fact transmitting.
I'm going to go back to slides and
just talk about some patches you might
want to explore on your own time.
There's some advanced patches for those
of you who are image processing mavens.
Image Histogram and Image Pixel are
very powerful patches and I hope that
those of you who know kind of the
difference between them will take
a minute to explore what they do.
We also have open sound control
client and server patches for
communicating with outside devices,
as well as patches geared for
communicating with hardware,
such as the Apple Remote and
HID-compliant hardware devices.
We have some numeric patches,
some more string patches
such as grep patch,
and of course the OpenGL Shading
Language is the newest programming
patch for you to explore just
what you can do with GLSL.
And to talk about some of the
research applications that
Quartz Composer is capable of,
I'd like to invite Kevin up
on stage to talk about.
All right.
Hello, everybody.
So I'm going to talk to you about the
redesigned Core Image Filter patch
that we have now in Leopard.
So this guy used to be called
Core Image Kernel Patch in Tiger,
and we did not only change one word.
For those of you who are
not familiar with this,
a core image kernel is a little
bit of software that runs on the
GPU and that does image processing in
parallel using the power of the GPU.
It's pretty fast and it's pretty cool.
What you used to do in Tiger is that you
type your little kernel and you add the
input ports of your patch that reflected
the input arguments of your kernel.
So here you have the simple case.
It takes an image, returns the image.
It always returns an image only,
but it can take multiple images,
floats and so on.
So,
So why did we move from kernel to filter?
Well,
it's because in the Core Image world,
a Core Image filter can be a
lot more than just a kernel.
It can be two kernels, three kernels,
five kernels, or lots of kernels.
And domain of definition,
lots of other options that you can set.
So what we did is that we added all,
we brought all what
Core Image can do at the QC level.
And what it means is that QC is now the
pretty much perfect environment for you
to prototype your Core Image filters.
And the reason why is because
you have immediate feedback
once you're getting QC.
So you type something and you see
immediately the result on screen,
you change the parameter,
you change the kernel,
you change something,
and you see what's happening.
So you don't have to set up
your Xcode project to build,
to compile, and to do your test images
and that kind of thing.
You can do all these things to
see the effect of what you do.
You can see it immediately.
And the result is that you can
be more efficient and so you can
go far away in a faster manner.
And I'm going to show you in
just a little bit some examples
of the possibilities and the
location you can go to with this
redesigned Core Image filter patch.
I'm going to show you some
image processing and some
for scientific research.
Okay.
So, one example I'm going to show you
is going to be a WaveLay transform.
It's pretty cool math for
those of you who like math.
And it's at the core of the JPEG 2000
high-quality image compression.
And so that's what it looks like,
it's level 4.
And that's pretty complex,
lots of things.
And that's a little -- that's too
bad because you see here you have
four times the same functional block.
So you would like to be able to just
put that in a function and on the
loop and something like iterate this.
But this one works just by chaining
one kernel per patch together.
So it's possible with
one kernel per patch.
But, you know,
so we would like to improve this.
And if you look a little closer,
you see you have lots
of times the same patch.
So we would like to have a better way to
deal with all these kernel duplications.
So now in the core image filter patch,
you can define more than one kernel.
So that's one thing.
So then you need to say, well,
you need to say to your filter
which kernel is going to go first,
and then which kernel
is going to go after,
and so these things.
So to do this,
we added a second editable text
view that is JavaScript environment
in which you apply your kernel.
You call the apply function on each
kernel variable that becomes available
in this JavaScript environment.
So I just want to say
something now real quick,
is that this stuff is for advanced users.
So if you create a new core
image filter patch in Leopard,
it's going to behave exactly
just like it used to in Tiger.
But for those of you who might
want to do advanced users,
advanced image processing, and so on,
well, you have the option of adding
the extra power of core image.
So what you see now is that this kernel,
and you have all this apply function
is encompassed in between inside
a main function of JavaScript.
And so in this advanced mode,
it's now the input arguments of this
main function that becomes the input
port of your core image filter.
And so here, for instance,
I just added an index.
And I can use this index to
preprocess and preprocess data
before fitting into my kernels.
Or I can also change the
kernel suite in itself.
For instance, here I applied a number of
times iteratively regarding
the count input parameter.
input parameter.
So that's it.
So that's one thing that we added.
So you can define multiple kernels.
Another thing is the possibility
to define domain of definition,
or DoD.
So domain of definition is
pretty important for this
kind of filter that transform,
that explode, you know, for which,
so domain of definition, I'm sorry,
is this region in which the result image
of your kernel is going to be defined.
And for some filters,
kernels just like this, a zoom blur,
the region where your filter is
defined is bigger than the domain
of definition of the input image.
So you need to say to your kernel
that this is going to be the case,
and to do this,
you use the first argument
of the apply function.
So it's a rectangle,
and it can be unions of rectangle,
intersection, rotation, and so on,
lots of funky things.
And we wrap the CI filter shape for
those of you who are familiar with this
to do all these operational rectangles.
So another thing is region of interest,
which is, if I can help you,
the domain of definition
in the other direction.
So a region of interest is which,
given a destination rectangle,
what is the source rectangle that I need
to process this destination rectangle?
And in the case of sub-sampling,
for instance, the default,
which is identity, doesn't work.
You need to say that.
So you say that the source
rectangle is actually bigger,
and for this,
you set the ARI handler property on
the kernel variable to a function,
which is JavaScript,
so all of this is in the
JavaScript environment,
and this function is going to
take the destination rectangle
and return the region of interest,
so the source rectangle.
One last thing is that you can
access from within the JavaScript all
the built-in core image filters
that are shipped in the system.
So you don't have to redo
the color transformation,
geometry, compositing and all the
stuff that CIS already does
where you blur and so on.
So it's very easy to do.
You just write the name of
the kernel of the filter,
core image filter,
built-in core image filter,
and you apply it.
You give it a name and it works fine.
So now let me show you an example
of the Core Image filter patch
in action for advanced users.
So now -- let me go there.
Here we go.
So that's this fabulous advertisement
that we absolutely all adore,
which is the Ducati
motorbike something ad.
So you even have sound.
So it doesn't look like
a lot is happening.
You have the advertisement full quality,
so you're very happy.
It's in HD, you see.
So here you have,
if you look at the composition,
you have a movie patch that
feeds images and that goes
through a core image filter.
So actually something
seems to be happening.
So what this core image filter does
is does as much as what I said before,
it's doing a full-fledged wave-led
decomposition and recomposition.
And so this stuff is used in JPEG 2000.
For those of you who are
image processing people,
you know that wave-led waveform
is less at compression level zero.
So here that's what we have.
We have zero.
But we can in real time,
I'm going to start,
we can in real time adjust the
compression parameter and see the effect
of compression in the input image.
And in real time,
a lot of stuff is happening over there.
Lots of math.
All the kernel that you saw before,
that's what is going on there.
And it's in real time
happening on your video.
You can also stop.
So yeah, so what I want to say,
so all this stuff is
happening on the GPU,
the JavaScript from the CPU,
but it's just there to
build the suite of kernels.
So the kernel function,
all this kernel junction stuff,
kernel one after the other.
So the kernel recipe, the filter recipe,
but the evolution of the kernel function,
the evolution of this kernel recipe,
so the core image filters is
actually evaluated on the GPU.
So that's where the expensive stuff is
going on because you have to process
all these pixels of these bits.
So, you can also use the same patch
to show you the wavelet transform
at the decomposition level.
So, you have all the multi edges,
multi resolution thing, which is, I mean,
you know,
it's pretty exciting for people,
like this kind of image processing stuff.
You can change, you know,
you can see the effect of compression
on the wavelet coefficient,
change the wavelet level.
So, you have full compression,
then you have more.
You can also save that as an
image filter to take a photo booth
picture of decomposition of your
face to your friends and family.
You know,
that's a secret feature of WebViewer.
Secret secret.
Nobody knew about it.
Of course.
So here we go.
So I hope all the image processing
gurus over here are going to
have a lot of fun with this.
It's very practical.
And I'm just going to show
you how the code looks like.
so we have it here.
We have some kernels,
so we have maybe a dozen,
maybe a little more, convolution,
sub-sampling, so yeah,
you can check it out.
You have the source
available on the WC website.
Here, that's a JavaScript,
so you have a little bit, but the -- so,
but, okay, so this is a bunch of DODRIs,
so we use all the parts,
so here that's just the
code for the recomposition,
which is the main thing,
and here that the code
for the decomposition,
which is just the hopper, so it's,
you know, it's not insurmountable,
and if you had to do that in a CGA,
it would be bad.
It would be worse.
So now a last example for computer
-- computer vision research,
so stereo depth computation
from a stereo pair of camera.
So you have left and right image,
and there is an algorithm up there -- so
two cameras looking at the same scene,
a little distant one to the other.
So there's one algorithm
up there that say that,
you know, we're doing some translation
distance and minimum.
You can actually find the depth.
So we just did it in a couple
of hours' read in Teclon.
And that's the result.
So, you know, it's not too bad.
White means closer,
and dark means far away.
So, you know, pretty much get the idea.
The lamp is closer and so on.
But what is cool is that
now you have this depth map.
So that's a depth map.
But now you're in QC,
so you can use it to -- you can use
all the other patches to visualize,
to interpret better this data.
That's what we did.
So you can just see -- explore
that in space using Sprite and
visualize your depth map and
projecting on the HITPUS sprite.
Thank
Thank you.
So you see that's nice.
And then you can see even better
that you have a bunch of noise.
I mean,
that's really -- I'm not -- you know,
it's not a SIGGRAPH paper of next year.
Just to show you what we
can do and to point out.
So what we can do is actually
you can reuse what we just did,
which is a JPEG 2000 thing.
So we're just -- it's used for denoising,
so I can just insert the guy,
have a noise threshold here.
So here's the left and right image.
I'm sorry,
left and right image going through
the core image for the patch that
returns the depth map over here.
So I'm just going to put that
through the JPEG 2000 patch with
a noise threshold with a threshold
with a coefficient of 0.6.
Let's go.
Let's see.
Let's insert that.
And you see we're doing denoising.
So you can play with that
and you can experiment.
And you know it's very easy to
reuse the work you're doing.
It's very fast.
And the code, real quick.
So you see this is easier
than we have transformed some
kernels and the JavaScript.
So the JavaScript, you know,
it fits in one page,
so it's not too hard.
Okay.
Let me quit that.
Oops, I'm sorry.
Let me go back to slides, please.
Thank you.
Okay, yes, I need to change this line.
So here we go.
So just briefly,
check out the new JavaScript patch.
It's improved.
We did a lot of work over there.
Now you can have typed
input and output ports.
And globals are fully supported.
So you can conserve state along
the execution of your composition.
It's very powerful.
OK, check it out.
Thank you.
All right,
I'm going to talk to you guys really
quickly about composition optimization.
Now that we've made
all these compositions,
we want to make them fast on all
the hardware that Apple ships.
And there are a few simple
things that you guys can do.
First one,
only execute the necessary patches.
It sounds obvious,
but a lot of people continue to execute
patches that are no longer on screen.
Use the enable input port on consumers
to disable all of the patches
that they're pulling data from.
Since most of what you deal with
in Quartz Composer is images,
make sure that you optimize your images.
There is no point in applying very large,
expensive effects on a large
image if you're only going
to resize it down later.
So make sure that your image
dimensions are what they need to be,
and to make that more convenient,
we added an image
resize patch in Leopard.
Also factorize common images.
If you need an image in
multiple different macro
patches within Quartz Composer,
publish things up to the top
level and have one copy of that
image rather than having multiple
copies in all those macro patches.
They're just taking up extra space.
Like I said during my demo,
the render in image patch
is incredibly powerful.
You're going to run into it if you
want to do anything complicated.
But it can also be very expensive.
It can use up a lot of VRAM.
So make sure you configure the
pixels wide and pixels high.
Also make sure that you configure
the settings appropriately.
There are some internal settings
on it that you can use to tweak
the amount of VRAM it uses.
Core Image is an incredibly
powerful technology.
Just make sure you use it carefully.
It can do some amazing things
that really can bog down even
the best systems out there.
So make sure that you sort of chain
them together in your composition
so you're not bouncing from the
GPU to the CPU and back and forth.
And this one's one that
most people don't consider.
Adapt your compositions dynamically
to the hardware capabilities.
We provide a couple patches such
as Host Info and OpenGL Info
that allow you to tell what the
machine you're on is capable of.
So for instance,
if Core Image isn't supported,
go down a different path rather than,
you know, if Core Image isn't
supported in hardware,
I mean,
go down a different path as opposed to
continuing to fall back to software.
So that's a couple of things
that we're going to talk about.
And those are really the five things
that help with optimizing compositions.
All of this information,
plus everything that we
didn't have time to cover,
is in the release notes.
It's under the Help menu.
There's also a Getting Started guide
there if you are new to Quartz Composer.
For more information,
contact Alan Schaefer.
He's our graphic evangelist.
We have a very active mailing list
with almost 1,000 members on it.
All the members of the Quartz
Composer team are on it
pretty much every day as well,
answering your questions.
We have a lab tomorrow.
We're going to be here
pretty much all afternoon,
so feel free to come in and
ask us any questions you want.
We also have a session tomorrow
on writing custom patches and
integrating within your application.
That's session number 421.
It's at 1030 tomorrow morning.
And in summary--
We've changed the editor
and removed a bunch of the
limitations that were in 10.4.
We've made it easier to
create compelling content.
With the Composition Repository,
we've made it easier for you to get that
compelling content into applications.
So what we want you to do is we want
you to take some time and explore.
You know, poke around.
Things that you didn't think were
possible with Quartz Composer,
like a lot of the stuff
Kevin was showing,
try them.
See if you're able to do it now.
And most of all, have fun,
because that's why we really
want to be in software anyway.